           LECTURE 11

2/9/2026                1
      1.   Objectives
      2.   Introduction
      3.   Environment and production
      4.   Sustainable manufacturing
      5.   Assurance and evaluation of sustainability
      6.   Examples of sustainability implementation in companies
      7.   Conclusion




2/9/2026                                                            2
    1.     Knowing the principles of sustainability.
    2.     Understanding the specific requirements of sustainable
           manufacturing.
    3.     Knowing the sustainability assessment methods in a company.
    4.     Knowing the application examples of the principles of sustainability
           in the companies in different fields.




2/9/2026                                                                     3
           Sustainable development - is the development that meets the needs
           of the present without compromising the ability of future
           generations, to meet their needs.



      Sustainable manufacturing           -
      ensures the manufacturing of products
      using processes that minimize
      negative    environmental    impacts,
      conserve    energy    and     natural
      resources, are safe for employees,
      communities and consumers and are
      economical.


2/9/2026                                                                  4
                   Sustainability is a journey, not a destination.


 There are no companies who by
  their activity have no impact on
  the environment.
 The main objective of any
  company should be to
  continuously implement
  sustainability at all levels.




2/9/2026                                                             5
      In sustainable manufacturing the focus is on:
           making products using fewer materials and energy,
           
           reducing waste in the manufacturing process,
           
           avoid using risk materials,
           
           development of "green products" (recyclable, a small amount of
           
           power used for their production etc.).
      Clean technologies, also called green technologies are technologies
       that ensure:
         environmental protection,
         compliance with environmental legislation,
         pollution prevention and control,
         waste management,
         development of environmentally friendly infrastructure.

           Examples of clean technologies: solid waste management,
           wastewater treatment, recycling, the use of solar panels, the use
2/9/2026   of wind turbines.                                             6
1. Sustainable development compromises ensuring resources
   for the next generation.
                                                                T   F

2. Sustainability assurance is a destination for any company.   T   F

3. In sustainable manufacturing focus is on making products
   using fewer materials and energy.
                                                                T   F

4. The sustainable manufacturing involves the removal of
   waste from the manufacturing process.
                                                                T   F

5. Green technologies provide pollution prevention and
   control.
                                                                T   F
 2/9/2026                                                           7
       A green product is a product designed to reduce its environmental
       impact.


  It is very important to consider the environmental impact of a product
   from design phase.

  Methods for manufacturing green products:
     use of renewable resources,
     reducing the number of materials for a product,
     increasing the efficiency of production processes,
     minimizing the use of packaging,
     integrated development of products,
     extending the life cycle of a product,
     development of recycled products.


2/9/2026                                                                    8
       It is quite difficult to meet the specific criteria of sustainable
        manufacturing.

       Actions to achieve the objectives required by sustainable
        manufacturing:
          improving practices used in manufacturing and maintenance,
          process optimization,
          replacement of raw materials,
          using new technologies,
          design for sustainability.




2/9/2026                                                              9
       In the past, companies focused on reducing
        pollution (the use of technology to reduce
        emissions).

       Today companies need to focus their efforts and
        resources on preventing pollution, to meet
        environmental standards and comply with the
        principles of sustainable manufacturing.

       Industrial ecology examines the evolution of
        materials and energy throughout production
        cycles and identify inefficiencies and losses in
        manufacturing processes.


2/9/2026                                                   10
1. A green product eliminates its environmental impact.         T   F

2. Environmental impact of a product should be considered
   from the design.                                             T   F

3. The products that minimize the use of packaging can be
   considered green.
                                                                T    F

4. Optimization of production is a measure required to ensure
   sustainability in manufacturing.                             T   F


5. Sustainable manufacturing is based on reducing pollution.
2/9/2026
                                                                T   F
                                                                    11
        Lean manufacturing is a management philosophy derived from the
         Toyota production system.



 Lean Manufacturing removes:
    defects,
    overproduction,
    delays,
    inefficient allocation of workers,
    transport,
    inventories,
    movement,
    additional processing.



 2/9/2026                                                           12
      Clean manufacturing implements methods of environmental protection
       beside Lean manufacturing specific concepts.

 Clean Manufacturing provides:           Means of implementation of
    more efficient use of materials,      clean manufacturing:
    responsible consumption of              maintenance measures,
     energy,                                 substitution of raw materials,
    reduction or elimination of toxic       effective control of processes,
     materials    from      production       improvement of equipment,
     processes                               changing technologies,
    waste reduction:                        regeneration and local reuse,
        solid and/or hazardous,             the manufacture of useful
        resulting from packaging             secondary products,
         materials,                          modifying products.
        released        into      the
         atmosphere,
        discharged into the water.
 2/9/2026                                                                13
      Objectives of Lean and Clean manufacturing:
            eliminating or reducing activities that do not add value to a
             product,
            eliminating or reducing environmental impact,
            identifying conflicts between customer specifications and
             principles of a clean environment, and removing them.
      Benefits of Lean and Clean manufacturing:
            efficient use of labor, time and capital
            efficient use of raw materials and energy,
            achieving maximum productivity using fewer resources,
            creating a way to obtain an increase in production without
             an equivalent increase in the consumption of resources,
            support the viability of a business.
2/9/2026                                                                  14
   Sustainability requires a balance between profitability, people and
    the environment.
   Areas where the principles of sustainability must be implemented:
            equipment
            operations
            cleaning,
            storage and transport,
            facilities,
            resources certified by external institutions
            culture


2/9/2026                                                                  15
            Sustainability through equipment involves several steps:
                looking for equipment whose design and implementation follows
                 the principles of sustainability,
                encourage providers to describe their equipment aspects of
                 sustainability,
                reducing production resources needed by combining multiple
                 functions into one device,
                improving existing equipment,
                use of commissioned equipment,
                marking using laser technology instead of ink printing,
                donation instead of throwing.

2/9/2026                                                                   16
1. In lean manufacturing there is no overproduction.             T   F

2. Clean manufacturing ensures responsible use of energy.        T   F

3. Substitution of raw materials with more polluting ones is a
   method of implementing clean manufacturing.
                                                                 T    F

4. Lean and Clean manufacturing provides support for the
   viability of a business.                                      T   F

5. Donating equipment is not a practice encouraged by the
   principles of sustainability.
 2/9/2026
                                                                 T   F
                                                                     17
            Sustainability through operations involves several steps:
               increased use of equipment,
               standardization to reduce the stock of material.
               finding an answer to the following questions:
                   • Materials and components are available when needed or
                     they have to be ordered?
                   • The operator can perform adjustments without using
                     specialized tools?
                   • Adjustments are made ​automatically or manually?



2/9/2026                                                                 18
            Sustainability in manufacturing operations can be improved
             by using some alternative methods for cleaning up:
                reducing water consumption,
                reducing or eliminating the need for cleaning,




2/9/2026                                                                  19
            Storage and transport activities must be optimized to meet the
             requirements of sustainability. It involves:
            reducing storage space,
            reducing energy consumption,
            reducing solid waste,
            using an integrated management system.




2/9/2026                                                               20
            Measures necessary to guarantee
             efficient use of resources:
               eliminating air leakage,
               reducing consumption when the
                equipment are idle,
               reducing electricity consumptions
                for equipment,
               reduce energy consumption for
                lighting.
                                                    This image cannot currently be displayed.




2/9/2026                                                                                        21
            There are independent organizations
             that can help producers to implement
             those    technologies    that   meet
             environmental requirements and more.
            Examples:
               Green Seal Organization
                    http://www.greenseal.org/
               Green Guard Organization
                    http://www.greenguard.org/
               Forest Stewardship Council
                    www.fsc.org/


2/9/2026                                            22
            Sustainability principles should be implemented
             in a company at all levels: from the manager up
             to worker.
            There should be a series of measures notified to
             all staff, which then should be implemented.
            Information shall be provided regarding the
             results of the implementation of sustainability.
            To motivate staff in achieving the overall
             objectives, it should be rewarded.




2/9/2026                                                        23
            Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) *
             of which Romania is part, has developed a guide to help companies
             to implement sustainability principles.
            OECD has defined a set of 18 quantitative indicators as follows:
                3 for the materials used as raw materials,
                8 for production processes,
                7 for the manufactured products




2/9/2026                                                                        24
                     *http://www.oecd.org
       For raw materials (inputs into the production process) OECD has
        defined the following indicators:


       the level of usage of materials which are not renewable


       the level of usage of restricted substances,


       the level of usage of reusable materials / recyclable materials.




2/9/2026                                                                   25
            The benefits of environmentally friendly practices:


      Lowering the amount of raw material               Reducing transport


                                                Reduce costs of handling, storage and
    Minimizing the amount of toxic materials
                                                             treatment

    Replacing toxic materials with some less       Reducing the effort to respect
                     toxic                            environmental norms

       Increasing the use of renewable and
                                               Reducing waste disposal requirements
               recyclable materials



2/9/2026                                                                                26
       OECD has defined eight indicators for analyzing manufacturing
        operations:
              water consumption per unit of product,
              energy consumed per unit of product,
              proportion of renewable energy in total energy consumption,
              amount of greenhouse emissions per unit of product,
              the amount of waste per unit of product produced,
              amount of emissions into the atmosphere per unit of product,
              the amount of residue in water issued per unit of product,
              percentage of the total area of the company, which is covered
               with natural materials (grass, trees, etc..)


                             Indicators 3 and 8 must have high values​​, and the
2/9/2026                     rest as small as possible.                    27
            Benefits of      achieving        environmentally     friendly     processing
             operations:

       Reduction of energy consumption               Reduce costs associated with energy.

                                                       Reducing the cost of monitoring,
       Reduction of waste and emissions
                                                           treating and disposing.

   Reprocessing of recovered materials at the         Increasing the added value of raw
            end of life of a product                              materials

      Replacing or upgrading equipment /
                                                       Improve efficiency of operations
               production lines

    Improving local biodiversity and natural            Reduce the need for water, air
                  conditions                           conditioning and other utilities

2/9/2026                                                                                    28
       OECD has defined seven indicators for assessing the products:
            proportion of a product that is recycled or reused,
            proportion of a product represented by recyclable materials
            proportion of a product represented by renewable materials,
            level of utilization of non-renewable materials,
            the amount of restricted substances in the product composition,
            energy consumption of the product,
            amount of greenhouse emissions of the product.


                           Indicators 1, 2 and 3 must have high values​​, and the
                           rest as small as possible.
2/9/2026                                                                      29
            The benefits of green products:

   Replacing non-renewable materials with           Reduce material costs. The
         renewable or recycled ones             development of attractive products.

     Reduction of hazardous substances in        Reducing the cost of monitoring,
                   products                          treating and disposing.

           Improving the recyclability or      Increasing the value of raw materials.
            biodegradability of products               Reducing waste costs.

   Reducing the amount of energy necessary      Decreasing the cost . Increasing the
        for the operation of a product            attractiveness of the products.

                                               Reducing the need for non-renewable
      Increasing the products durability
                                                            materials.

2/9/2026                                                                                30
            For the use of indicators, OECD recommends a sequence of seven
             steps, grouped into three stages:
                  Stage 1-Preparation:
                     Step 1: Impact analysis and prioritization,
                     Step 2: Select useful performance indicators.

                  Stage 2 Assessment:
                     Step 3: Measure the inputs used in production,
                     Step 4: Analysis of the production operations,
                     Step 5: Evaluation of products.

                  Step 3: Optimization:
                     Step 6: Understanding results of the analyzes made​​,
2/9/2026
                     Step 7: Act to increase performance.                  31
1. Implementing the principles of sustainability rests solely to
   the management team of a company.                                T    F

2. Utilization of reusable materials / recycled materials must
   be increased.                                                    T    F

3. The energy consumed per unit of product, according to the
   principles of sustainability can be increased if it comes from   T    F
   renewable sources.

4. Utilization of non-renewable materials must increase to
   reduce waste.                                                    T    F

5. A product must contain as many recycled or reusable
   components.
 2/9/2026
                                                                    T    F
                                                                        32
 Apple Computer
  publishes an annual
  report on the
  compliance with
  environmental
  restrictions and carbon
  footprint, available at
  http://www.apple.com
  /environment/ .



  2/9/2026                  33
     Dell publishes an annual
      report on the compliance
      with          environmental
      restrictions  and     carbon
      footprint,   available    at
      https://www.dell.com/en-
      us/dt/corporate/social-
      impact/esg-
      resources/reports/fy22-esg-
      report.htm


2/9/2026                             34
 The
  environmental
  report for 2021,
  published by HP,
  can be found at
  the address:
  https://www8.hp
  .com/h20195/v2/
  GetPDF.aspx/c08
  228880.pdf


   2/9/2026          35
            The sustainability and financial report published by Ford for the 2023
             can be found at: https://corporate.ford.com/social-
             impact/sustainability.html




2/9/2026                                                                       36
 The 2022 report
  of the XEROX
  Company is
  available at:
  https://www.xer
  ox.com/downlo
  ads/usa/en/x/X
  erox_CSR_Repor
  t.pdf



   2/9/2026         37
       Environmental regulations are becoming more stringent.

      Sustainability involves cooperation between companies, local
       authorities, Government and European authorities.

      All efforts should be focused on ensuring sustainable
       development, satisfying current needs without compromising
       those of future generations.

       Despite the involved initial costs, on medium and long term the
        companies will benefit from the implementation of sustainability
        principles at all levels.



2/9/2026                                                               38
            Revolutions in manufacturing
            Cloud computing
            Big data analysis
            Internet of things
            Industrial internet of things
            Cyber-physical systems
            Digital factory
            Smart factory
            Industry 4.0 and 5.0


2/9/2026                                     39
