           LECTURE 8

2/9/2026               1
1.    Objectives
2.    Review
3.    Process planning
4.    Computer aided process planning
5.    Concurrent engineering and Design for manufacturing and assembly
6.    Advanced manufacturing planning
7.    Conclusion




2/9/2026                                                                 2
      1.   Specific definitions in planning processes.
      2.   Knowing the characteristics of computer-aided planning.
      3.   Understand the importance of concurrent engineering.
      4.   Understand the design for processing and assembly concept.
      5.   Identify specific activities for the advanced planning of
           manufacturing.




2/9/2026                                                                3
      1.   Types of flexibility in manufacturing
      2.   The benefits of an FMS
      3.   Tests of flexibility (part variety, schedule change, error recovery,
           new part)




2/9/2026                                                                          4
           Process planning is the activity of developing a manufacturing
           plan used to convert the product design into a physical entity.

Developing a process plan involves:
            - interpretation of design drawings,
            - determining the processes and sequence,
            - equipment selection,
            - tools, dies, molds, fixtures, and gauges selection,
            - analysis methods.
            - work standards,
            - cutting tools and cutting conditions, etc.
2/9/2026                                                                     5
       Process planning can be done:
                 manually
                 automated using computers (CAPP =Computer Aided
                  Process Planning)

 Process plans developed by different people can be different for the same
  part or product .
 Process planning is necessary for:
            part produced,
            assembly

                              Consistent and correct planning requires both
                              knowledge of the manufacturing processes and
                              experience.
2/9/2026                                                                  6
     For individual parts, the processing sequence is documented on a form
     called a route sheet or operation sheet:




2/9/2026                                                                7
     The type of assembly method used for a given product depends on:
          anticipated production quantities,
          complexity of the assembled product,
          assembly processes used:
             - mechanical assembly,
             - welding




2/9/2026                                                                8
           Computer-aided process planning (CAPP) is the direct connection
           between design and manufacturing.

 The benefits of CAPP are:
        process rationalization and standardization
        increased productivity of process planners
        reduced lead time for process planning
        improved legibility
        incorporation of other application program


                 CAPP systems are designed around three approaches:
                        retrieval CAPP systems
                        generative CAPP systems
                        semi-generative CAPP systems
2/9/2026                                                                     9
            A retrieval CAPP system, also called a variant CAPP system, is
            based on the principles of group technology and parts
            classification and coding.


The development of the data base of these process plans consists of the
following steps:
       selecting an appropriate classification and coding scheme for the
        company
       forming part families for the parts produced by the company
       preparing standard process plans for the part families

                      The standard route sheets are based on current part
                      routings in use in the factory or on an ideal process plan
                      that has been prepared for each family.
 2/9/2026                                                                   10
           New part design        The retrieval CAPP system operates as
                                  illustrated below:
      Derive GT code number
      for part                                             Preparatory stage

      Search part family file                           Select coding system
                                Part family file
      for GT code number                                and form part families


      Retrieve standard         Standard process plan   Prepare standard
      process plan              file                    process plans for part
                                                        families

      Edit existing plan or
      write new plan

                                Other application
      Process plan formatter
                                programs

      Process plan
      (route sheet)

2/9/2026                                                                         11
        The CAPP generative technique is both more difficult to develop
         and more highly automated.

        The generative process planning system creates plans for new
         components without referring to existing plans or with the
         assistance of a human planner.

          The heuristic planning knowledge is captured in artificial
            intelligence (AI) software, called expert systems.
The advantages of generative CAPP :
        process plans are created rapidly and consistently;
        totally new process plans are created as quickly as plans similar to
         those for existing components;
        an interface to MRP and ERP software is possible;
        documentation requirements of ISO or QS 9000 standards are
         completed and best practices are promoted, even without experienced
         workers.
  2/9/2026                                                              12
                   The generalized system illustrated below
                   shows the generative CAPP operation:

                                             Part
                                             drawing


                                          Conversion to generative
                                          CAPP input format
           Code      Descriptive       CAD
                     language

                          Design specification
             Decision logic:       Process capability
             -Trees                database
             -Tables
             -Expert systems        Tooling database


                  Generative
                  process plan
2/9/2026                                                             13
1. Processes Planning requires information on existing tools
   and fasteners.
                                                                T   F

2. Processes Planning is always made automatically in a
   company.
                                                                T   F

3. PP requires information about manufacturing processes and
   experience to achieve a consistent planning.
                                                                T    F

4. The assembling method of a product depends on the
   expected throughput.
                                                                T   F

5. Use of a computer in planning processes decreases the time
   required to develop the process plan.
                                                                T   F
 2/9/2026                                                           14
           There are a number of factors that enter into the make or buy decision:

                     How do part costs compare?
                     Is the process available in-house?
                     What is the total production quantity?
                     What is the anticipated product life?
                     Is the component a standard item?
                     Is the supplier reliable?
                     Is the company’s plant already operating at full capacity?
                     Does the company need an alternative supply source?



2/9/2026                                                                     15
   Example 1
                   The quoted price for a certain part is 20 euros per unit for 100
                   units. The part can be produced in the company’s own plant for 28
                   euros. The cost components of making the part are listed below.
                                       Components         Price/unit [euro]
                                 Unit raw material cost          8
                                 Direct labor cost               6
                                 Labor overhead at 150%          9
                                 Equipment fixed cost            5
                                 Total                           28

                    Should the component be bought or made in-house?

Solution
What is the impact on plant if the quote is accepted?
The cost components for the company, if the decision is to buy the part are listed
below:
            Components             Price/unit [euro]
     Quoted price for one part            20
     Labor overhead at 150%               9
     Equipment fixed cost                 5
 2/9/2026
     Total                                34                                    16
            Concurrent engineering, also called simultaneous engineering refers to an
            approach used in product development in which the functions of design
            engineering, manufacturing engineering, and other functions are integrated to
            reduce the elapsed time required to bring a new product to market.

                                    The wall between design
                                    and manufacturing
(a)                                  Manufacturing engineering
      Product design                 and process planning              Production and assembly
                       Product launch time , traditional design/manufacturing
                       cycle
                       Quality
       Sales and                                                         Difference in product
                       engineering
       marketing                                                       launch time
                          Vendors
(b)   Product design                                                   Comparison of:
                                                                       (a) traditional product
           Manufacturing engineering
                                          Production and assembly          development cycle.
           and process planning                                        (b) product ddevelopment
              Product launch time , concurrent                             using concurrent
      2/9/2026 engineering                                                                     17
                                                                           engineering.
        Concurrent engineering includes several elements:
              design for manufacturing and assembly
              design for quality
              design for cost
              design for life cycle

        Additionally certain technologies are required to facilitate the
         concurrent engineering:
             rapid prototyping
             virtual prototyping
             organizational changes
2/9/2026                                                                    18
             Design for manufacturing and assembly (DFMA) is any procedure
             or design process that considers the production factors from the
             beginning of the product design.

 DFMA provides the following typical advantages:

      Reduction of design-to-product launch cycles by as much as 50 percent.
      Reduction of part counts by 30 to 70 percent.
      Reduction of assembly times by 50 to 80 percent.


               Design for manufacturing and assembly involves:
                      organizational changes
  2/9/2026
                      design principles and guidelines.                  19
            Effective implementation of DFMA involves making changes in a
             company’s organizational structure:

                 by creating project teams consisting of:
                     product designers
                     manufacturing engineers
                     quality engineers
                     material scientists

                 by requiring design engineers to spend some time in
                  manufacturing;

                 by assigning manufacturing engineers to the product design
                  department to serve as manufacturing consultants.

2/9/2026                                                                  20
        General principles and guidelines in DFMA are:
            minimize number of components;
            use standard commercially available components;
            use common parts across product lines;
            design for ease of part fabrication;
            design parts with tolerances that are within process capability;
            design the product to be foolproof during assembly;
            minimize flexible components;
            design for ease of assembly;
            use modular design;
            shape parts and products for ease of packaging;
            eliminate or reduce adjustments.
2/9/2026                                                                 21
             Design for quality (DFQ) is the term that refers to the principles
             and procedures employed to ensure that the highest possible
             quality is designed into the product.


 The general objectives of DFQ are:
     to design the product to meet or exceed customer
      requirements

     to design the product so that its function and
      performance are relatively insensitive to variations in
      manufacturing and subsequent application.

     to continuously improve the performance, functionality,
      reliability, safety, and other quality aspects.
  2/9/2026                                                                 22
           Design for product cost (DFC) refers to the efforts of a company to
           specifically identify how design decisions affect product costs and
           to develop ways to reduce cost through design.




           Design for life cycle (DFLC) refers to the product after it has been
           manufactured and includes factors ranging from product delivery
           to product disposal.



2/9/2026                                                                    23
            Advanced manufacturing planning involves working with sales,
            marketing, and design engineering to forecast the new products
            that will be introduced and to determine what production
            resources will be needed to make those future products.


       Activities in advanced manufacturing planning include:
            new technology evaluation,
            investment project management,
            facilities planning,
            manufacturing research.


2/9/2026                                                             24
              The general planning cycle:

                             New product-process strategy

                                                    Existing
                                                    manufacturing
                              Advanced              capability         Future
           Future products    manufacturing                            manufacturing
                              planning              New                capability
                                                    technologies



                                       New technology evaluation


                                       Investment project management

                                       Facilities planning

2/9/2026                               Manufacturing research                          25
              To introduce a new product a company must either:
                    implement new processing technologies in-house or,
                    purchase the components made by the new technologies.

  Other reasons why a company may need to introduce new technologies:
            quality improvement
            productivity improvement
            cost reduction
            lead time reduction
            modernization and replacement of worn-out equipment

2/9/2026                                                                26
            The steps for investment project management activity are:
                 proposal to justify the investment is prepared;
                 management approvals are granted for the investment;
                 vendor quotations are solicited;
                 order is placed to the winning vendor;
                 vendor progress in building the equipment is monitored;
                 any special tooling and supplies are ordered;
                 the equipment is installed and debugged;
                 training of operators;
                 responsibility for running the equipment is turned over to the
2/9/2026          operating department.                                      27
             Facilities planning is the planning work required to renovate an
             existing facility or design a new one, and is carried out by the plant
             engineering department.


            Facilities planning can be divided into two types of problems:
                 facilities location
                 facilities design


                     Factors that must be considered: location relative to
                     customers and suppliers, labor availability, skills of
                     labor pool, transportation, etc..
2/9/2026                                                                      28
            Manufacturing research can take various forms:
                 development of new processing technologies,
                 adaptation of existing processing technologies,
                 process fine-tuning,
                 software systems development,
                 automation systems development,
                 operations research and simulation.




2/9/2026                                                            29
1. Retrieval CAPP systems use the principles of group
   technology.
                                                               T    F

2. Generative CAPP systems use artificial intelligence
   algorithms.
                                                               T    F

3. Using concurrent engineering concepts, the lead time
   decreases.
                                                               T    F

4. Design for manufacturing and assembly involves changes at
   the organizational level in a company.
                                                               T    F

5. Manufacturing research involves the optimization of
   production processes.
                                                               T    F
 2/9/2026                                                          30
           Examples of companies that develop and sale CAPP software:
            CIMx Company  CIMx Apps® Suite
           (http://www.cimx.com/solutions-and-benefits)
            MTI SYSTEMS  Costimator OEM, COSTIMATOR JS
           ( http://www.mtisystems.com/ )




2/9/2026                                                                31
       Production processes planning involves the use of information on
        production technologies.


      Have to take into account aspects of the structure of production,
       the equipment available, qualification of personnel involved, etc..


      Proper planning of production processes is a key factor in
       ensuring high productivity.




2/9/2026                                                                     32
            Production Planning
            Material Requirements Planning
            Capacity Planning




2/9/2026                                      33
